toolkit/packages/skills/webapp-testing/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: webapp-testing
version: 1.2.0
description: Toolkit for interacting with and testing local web applications using Playwright. Supports verifying frontend functionality, debugging UI behavior, capturing browser screenshots, and viewing browser logs.
license: Apache-2.0

metadata:
  author: stevengonsalvez
  repository: https://github.com/stevengonsalvez/ai-coder-rules
  category: testing
  keywords: [playwright, testing, automation, web, browser, e2e]

compatibility: Requires Python 3.11+, Playwright installed, Chromium browser

allowed-tools:
  - Bash
  - Read
  - Write
  - Edit

dependencies:
  python: ">=3.11"
  playwright: "*"
---

# Web Application Testing

To test local web applications, write native Python Playwright scripts.

**Helper Scripts Available**:
- `scripts/with_server.py` - Manages server lifecycle (supports multiple servers)

**Always run scripts with `--help` first** to see usage. DO NOT read the source until you try running the script first and find that a customized solution is absolutely necessary. These scripts can be very large and thus pollute your context window. They exist to be called directly as black-box scripts rather than ingested into your context window.

## Browser Tools (Direct Chrome DevTools Control)

The `~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools` utility provides lightweight, context-rot-proof browser automation using the Chrome DevTools Protocol directly (no MCP overhead).

**Available Commands**:

```bash
# Launch browser and get connection details
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools start [--port PORT] [--headless]

# Navigate to URL
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools nav <url> [--wait-for {load|networkidle|domcontentloaded}]

# Evaluate JavaScript
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools eval "<javascript code>"

# Take screenshot
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools screenshot <output.png> [--full-page] [--selector CSS_SELECTOR]

# Interactive element picker (returns selectors)
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools pick

# Get console logs
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools console [--level {log|warn|error|all}]

# Search page content
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools search "<query>" [--case-sensitive]

# Extract page content (markdown, links, text)
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools content [--format {markdown|links|text}]

# Get/set cookies
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools cookies [--set NAME=VALUE] [--domain DOMAIN]

# Inspect element details
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools inspect <css-selector>

# Terminate browser session
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools kill
```

**When to Use Browser-Tools vs Playwright**:

✅ **Use browser-tools when**:
- Quick inspection/debugging of running apps
- Need to identify selectors interactively (`pick` command)
- Extracting page content for analysis
- Running simple JavaScript snippets
- Monitoring console logs in real-time
- Taking quick screenshots without writing scripts

✅ **Use Playwright when**:
- Complex multi-step automation workflows
- Need full test assertion framework
- Handling multi-step forms
- Database integration (Supabase utilities)
- Comprehensive test coverage
- Generating test reports

**Example Workflow**:

```bash
# 1. Start browser pointed at your app
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools start --port 9222

# 2. Navigate to the page
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools nav http://localhost:3000

# 3. Use interactive picker to find selectors
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools pick
# Click on elements in the browser, get their selectors

# 4. Inspect specific elements
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools inspect "button.submit"

# 5. Take screenshot for documentation
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools screenshot /tmp/page.png --full-page

# 6. Check console for errors
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools console --level error

# 7. Clean up
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools kill
```

**Benefits**:
- **No MCP overhead**: Direct Chrome DevTools Protocol communication
- **Context-rot proof**: No dependency on evolving MCP specifications
- **Interactive picker**: Visual element selection for selector discovery
- **Lightweight**: Faster than full Playwright for simple tasks
- **Pre-compiled binary**: Ready to use, no compilation needed (auto-compiled via create-rule.js)

## Decision Tree: Choosing Your Approach

```
User task → Is it static HTML?
    ├─ Yes → Read HTML file directly to identify selectors
    │         ├─ Success → Write Playwright script using selectors
    │         └─ Fails/Incomplete → Treat as dynamic (below)
    │
    └─ No (dynamic webapp) → Is the server already running?
        ├─ No → Run: python scripts/with_server.py --help
        │        Then use the helper + write simplified Playwright script
        │
        └─ Yes → Reconnaissance-then-action:
            1. Navigate and wait for networkidle
            2. Take screenshot or inspect DOM
            3. Identify selectors from rendered state
            4. Execute actions with discovered selectors
```

## Example: Using with_server.py

To start a server, run `--help` first, then use the helper:

**Single server:**
```bash
python scripts/with_server.py --server "npm run dev" --port 3000 -- python your_automation.py
```

**Multiple servers (e.g., backend + frontend):**
```bash
python scripts/with_server.py \
  --server "cd backend && python server.py" --port 8000 \
  --server "cd frontend && npm run dev" --port 3000 \
  -- python your_automation.py
```

To create an automation script, include only Playwright logic (servers are managed automatically):
```python
from playwright.sync_api import sync_playwright

APP_PORT = 3000  # Match the port from --port argument

with sync_playwright() as p:
    browser = p.chromium.launch(headless=True) # Always launch chromium in headless mode
    page = browser.new_page()
    page.goto(f'http://localhost:{APP_PORT}') # Server already running and ready
    page.wait_for_load_state('networkidle') # CRITICAL: Wait for JS to execute
    # ... your automation logic
    browser.close()
```

## Reconnaissance-Then-Action Pattern

1. **Inspect rendered DOM**:
   ```python
   page.screenshot(path='/tmp/inspect.png', full_page=True)
   content = page.content()
   page.locator('button').all()
   ```

2. **Identify selectors** from inspection results

3. **Execute actions** using discovered selectors

## Common Pitfall

❌ **Don't** inspect the DOM before waiting for `networkidle` on dynamic apps
✅ **Do** wait for `page.wait_for_load_state('networkidle')` before inspection

## Best Practices

- **Use bundled scripts as black boxes** - To accomplish a task, consider whether one of the scripts available in `scripts/` can help. These scripts handle common, complex workflows reliably without cluttering the context window. Use `--help` to see usage, then invoke directly. 
- Use `sync_playwright()` for synchronous scripts
- Always close the browser when done
- Use descriptive selectors: `text=`, `role=`, CSS selectors, or IDs
- Add appropriate waits: `page.wait_for_selector()` or `page.wait_for_timeout()`

## Utility Modules

The skill now includes comprehensive utilities for common testing patterns:

### UI Interactions (`utils/ui_interactions.py`)

Handle common UI patterns automatically:

```python
from utils.ui_interactions import (
    dismiss_cookie_banner,
    dismiss_modal,
    click_with_header_offset,
    force_click_if_needed,
    wait_for_no_overlay,
    wait_for_stable_dom
)

# Dismiss cookie consent
dismiss_cookie_banner(page)

# Close welcome modal
dismiss_modal(page, modal_identifier="Welcome")

# Click button behind fixed header
click_with_header_offset(page, 'button#submit', header_height=100)

# Try click with force fallback
force_click_if_needed(page, 'button#action')

# Wait for loading overlays to disappear
wait_for_no_overlay(page)

# Wait for DOM to stabilize
wait_for_stable_dom(page)
```

### Smart Form Filling (`utils/form_helpers.py`)

Intelligently handle form variations:

```python
from utils.form_helpers import (
    SmartFormFiller,
    handle_multi_step_form,
    auto_fill_form
)

# Works with both "Full Name" and "First/Last Name" fields
filler = SmartFormFiller()
filler.fill_name_field(page, "Jane Doe")
filler.fill_email_field(page, "jane@example.com")
filler.fill_password_fields(page, "SecurePass123!")
filler.fill_phone_field(page, "+447700900123")
filler.fill_date_field(page, "1990-01-15", field_hint="birth")

# Auto-fill entire form
results = auto_fill_form(page, {
    'email': 'test@example.com',
    'password': 'Pass123!',
    'full_name': 'Test User',
    'phone': '+447700900123',
    'date_of_birth': '1990-01-15'
})

# Handle multi-step forms
steps = [
    {'fields': {'email': 'test@example.com', 'password': 'Pass123!'}, 'checkbox': True},
    {'fields': {'full_name': 'Test User', 'date_of_birth': '1990-01-15'}},
    {'complete': True}
]
handle_multi_step_form(page, steps)
```

### Supabase Testing (`utils/supabase.py`)

Database operations for Supabase-based apps:

```python
from utils.supabase import SupabaseTestClient, quick_cleanup

# Initialize client
client = SupabaseTestClient(
    url="https://project.supabase.co",
    service_key="your-service-role-key",
    db_password="your-db-password"
)

# Create test user
user_id = client.create_user("test@example.com", "password123")

# Create invite code
client.create_invite_code("TEST2024", code_type="general")

# Bypass email verification
client.confirm_email(user_id)

# Cleanup after test
client.cleanup_related_records(user_id)
client.delete_user(user_id)

# Quick cleanup helper
quick_cleanup("test@example.com", "db_password", "https://project.supabase.co")
```

### Advanced Wait Strategies (`utils/wait_strategies.py`)

Better alternatives to simple sleep():

```python
from utils.wait_strategies import (
    wait_for_api_call,
    wait_for_element_stable,
    smart_navigation_wait,
    combined_wait
)

# Wait for specific API response
response = wait_for_api_call(page, '**/api/profile**')

# Wait for element to stop moving
wait_for_element_stable(page, '.dropdown-menu', stability_ms=1000)

# Smart navigation with URL check
page.click('button#login')
smart_navigation_wait(page, expected_url_pattern='**/dashboard**')

# Comprehensive wait (network + DOM + overlays)
combined_wait(page)
```

### Smart Selectors (`utils/smart_selectors.py`) ⭐ NEW

Automatically try multiple selector strategies to find elements, reducing test brittleness:

```python
from utils.smart_selectors import SelectorStrategies

# Find and fill email field (tries 7 different selector strategies)
success = SelectorStrategies.smart_fill(page, 'email', 'test@example.com')
# Output: ✓ Found field via placeholder: input[placeholder*="email" i]
#         ✓ Filled 'email' with value

# Find and click button (tries 8 different strategies)
success = SelectorStrategies.smart_click(page, 'Sign In')
# Output: ✓ Found button via case-insensitive text: button:text-matches("Sign In", "i")
#         ✓ Clicked 'Sign In' button

# Manual control - find input field selector
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_input_field(page, 'password')
if selector:
    page.fill(selector, 'my-password')

# Manual control - find button selector
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_button(page, 'Submit')
if selector:
    page.click(selector)

# Try custom selectors with fallback
selectors = ['button#submit', 'button.submit-btn', 'input[type="submit"]']
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_any_element(page, selectors)
```

**Selector Strategies Tried (in order):**

For input fields:
1. Test IDs: `[data-testid*="email"]`
2. ARIA labels: `input[aria-label*="email"]`
3. Placeholder: `input[placeholder*="email"]`
4. Name attribute: `input[name*="email"]`
5. Type attribute: `input[type="email"]`
6. ID exact: `#email`
7. ID partial: `input[id*="email"]`

For buttons:
1. Test IDs: `[data-testid*="sign-in"]`
2. Name attribute: `button[name*="Sign In"]`
3. Exact text: `button:has-text("Sign In")`
4. Case-insensitive: `button:text-matches("Sign In", "i")`
5. Link as button: `a:has-text("Sign In")`
6. Submit input: `input[type="submit"][value*="Sign In"]`
7. Role button: `[role="button"]:has-text("Sign In")`

**When to use:**
- ✅ Forms where HTML structure changes frequently
- ✅ Third-party components with unpredictable selectors
- ✅ Multi-application test suites
- ❌ Performance-critical tests (adds 5s timeout per strategy)

**Performance:**
- Timeout per strategy: 5 seconds (configurable)
- Max timeout: 10 seconds across all strategies
- Typical: First strategy works (1-2 seconds)

### Browser Configuration (`utils/browser_config.py`) ⭐ NEW

Auto-configure browser context for testing environments:

```python
from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig

# Auto-detect CSP bypass for localhost
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'http://localhost:3000'
)
# Output:
# ============================================================
#   Browser Context Configuration
# ============================================================
#   Base URL: http://localhost:3000
#   🔓 CSP bypass: ENABLED (testing on localhost)
#   ⚠️  HTTPS errors: IGNORED (self-signed certs OK)
#   📐 Viewport: 1280x720
# ============================================================

# Production testing (no CSP bypass)
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'https://production.example.com'
)
# Output: 🔒 CSP bypass: DISABLED (production mode)

# Mobile device emulation
context = BrowserConfig.create_mobile_context(
    browser,
    device='iPhone 12',
    base_url='http://localhost:3000'
)
# Output: 📱 Mobile context: iPhone 12
#         Viewport: {'width': 390, 'height': 844}
#         🔓 CSP bypass: ENABLED

# Manual override
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'http://localhost:3000',
    bypass_csp=False,  # Force disable even for localhost
    record_video=True,  # Record test session
    extra_http_headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer token'}
)
```

**Features:**
- **Auto CSP detection**: Enables bypass for localhost, disables for production
- **Self-signed certs**: Ignores HTTPS errors by default
- **Consistent viewport**: 1280x720 default for reproducible tests
- **Mobile emulation**: Built-in device profiles
- **Video recording**: Optional session recording
- **Verbose logging**: See exactly what's configured

**When to use:**
- ✅ Every test (replaces manual `browser.new_context()`)
- ✅ Testing on localhost with CSP restrictions
- ✅ Mobile-responsive testing
- ✅ Need consistent browser configuration across tests

### CSP Monitoring (`utils/ui_interactions.py`) ⭐ NEW

Auto-detect and suggest fixes for Content Security Policy violations:

```python
from utils.ui_interactions import setup_page_with_csp_handling
from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig

context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(browser, 'http://localhost:7160')
page = context.new_page()

# Enable CSP violation monitoring
setup_page_with_csp_handling(page)

page.goto('http://localhost:7160')

# If CSP violation occurs, you'll see:
# ======================================================================
# ⚠️  CSP VIOLATION DETECTED
# ======================================================================
# Message: Refused to execute inline script because it violates...
#
# 💡 SUGGESTION:
#    For localhost testing, use:
#
#    from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig
#    context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
#        browser, 'http://localhost:3000'
#    )
#    # Auto-enables CSP bypass for localhost
#
#    Or manually:
#    context = browser.new_context(bypass_csp=True)
# ======================================================================
```

**When to use:**
- ✅ Debugging why tests fail on localhost
- ✅ Identifying CSP configuration issues
- ✅ Verifying CSP bypass is working
- ❌ Production testing (CSP should be enforced)

## Complete Examples

### Multi-Step Registration

See `examples/multi_step_registration.py` for a complete example showing:
- Database setup (invite codes)
- Cookie banner dismissal
- Multi-step form automation
- Email verification bypass
- Login flow
- Dashboard verification
- Cleanup

Run it:
```bash
python examples/multi_step_registration.py
```

## Using the Webapp-Testing Subagent

A specialized subagent is available for testing automation. Use it to keep your main conversation focused on development:

```
You: "Use webapp-testing agent to register test@example.com and verify the parent role switch works"

Main Agent: [Launches webapp-testing subagent]

Webapp-Testing Agent: [Runs complete automation, returns results]
```

**Benefits:**
- Keeps main context clean
- Specialized for Playwright automation
- Access to all skill utilities
- Automatic screenshot capture
- Clear result reporting

## Reference Files

- **examples/** - Examples showing common patterns:
  - `element_discovery.py` - Discovering buttons, links, and inputs on a page
  - `static_html_automation.py` - Using file:// URLs for local HTML
  - `console_logging.py` - Capturing console logs during automation
  - `multi_step_registration.py` - Complete registration flow example (NEW)

- **utils/** - Reusable utility modules (NEW):
  - `ui_interactions.py` - Cookie banners, modals, overlays, stable waits
  - `form_helpers.py` - Smart form filling, multi-step automation
  - `supabase.py` - Database operations for Supabase apps
  - `wait_strategies.py` - Advanced waiting patterns

Commit message:

refactor(toolkit): make packages/ canonical source for all tools
BREAKING CHANGE: claude-code-4.5/ is now a thin layer over packages/

## Migration Summary

- packages/ is now the canonical source for agents, commands, skills
- claude-code-4.5/ only contains tool-specific files (CLAUDE.md, settings.json)
- create-rule.js updated to use packages/ for claude-code, gemini, amazonq
- sync-learnings command updated for 3-way sync to packages/

## Changes

### packages/ (canonical source)
- Synced 34 agents from claude-code-4.5
- Synced 41 commands with proper routing
- Synced 4 skills with all assets
- Added: focused-repository-analyzer, session-info, tui-style-guide, reflect agent

### claude-code-4.5/ (thin layer)
- Removed duplicate agents, commands, skills, hooks, templates, utils
- Kept only: CLAUDE.md, settings.json, .gitignore
- Added session/ and logs/ to .gitignore

### create-rule.js
- claude-code-4.5: now uses usePackagesStructure with packageMappings
- gemini: now uses packages/ instead of sharedContentDir
- amazonq: now uses packages/ instead of sharedContentDir

### CI/CD
- Added .github/workflows/toolkit-validation.yml
- Tests: package structure, tool installations, template substitution
- Validates claude-code-4.5 remains a thin layer

### Beads Tasks
- Added .beads/ issue tracker with migration tasks (all closed)

toolkit/packages/skills/webapp-testing/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: webapp-testing
description: Toolkit for interacting with and testing local web applications using Playwright. Supports verifying frontend functionality, debugging UI behavior, capturing browser screenshots, and viewing browser logs.
license: Complete terms in LICENSE.txt
---

# Web Application Testing

To test local web applications, write native Python Playwright scripts.

**Helper Scripts Available**:
- `scripts/with_server.py` - Manages server lifecycle (supports multiple servers)

**Always run scripts with `--help` first** to see usage. DO NOT read the source until you try running the script first and find that a customized solution is abslutely necessary. These scripts can be very large and thus pollute your context window. They exist to be called directly as black-box scripts rather than ingested into your context window.

## Browser Tools (Direct Chrome DevTools Control)

The `~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools` utility provides lightweight, context-rot-proof browser automation using the Chrome DevTools Protocol directly (no MCP overhead).

**Available Commands**:

```bash
# Launch browser and get connection details
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools start [--port PORT] [--headless]

# Navigate to URL
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools nav <url> [--wait-for {load|networkidle|domcontentloaded}]

# Evaluate JavaScript
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools eval "<javascript code>"

# Take screenshot
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools screenshot <output.png> [--full-page] [--selector CSS_SELECTOR]

# Interactive element picker (returns selectors)
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools pick

# Get console logs
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools console [--level {log|warn|error|all}]

# Search page content
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools search "<query>" [--case-sensitive]

# Extract page content (markdown, links, text)
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools content [--format {markdown|links|text}]

# Get/set cookies
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools cookies [--set NAME=VALUE] [--domain DOMAIN]

# Inspect element details
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools inspect <css-selector>

# Terminate browser session
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools kill
```

**When to Use Browser-Tools vs Playwright**:

✅ **Use browser-tools when**:
- Quick inspection/debugging of running apps
- Need to identify selectors interactively (`pick` command)
- Extracting page content for analysis
- Running simple JavaScript snippets
- Monitoring console logs in real-time
- Taking quick screenshots without writing scripts

✅ **Use Playwright when**:
- Complex multi-step automation workflows
- Need full test assertion framework
- Handling multi-step forms
- Database integration (Supabase utilities)
- Comprehensive test coverage
- Generating test reports

**Example Workflow**:

```bash
# 1. Start browser pointed at your app
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools start --port 9222

# 2. Navigate to the page
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools nav http://localhost:3000

# 3. Use interactive picker to find selectors
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools pick
# Click on elements in the browser, get their selectors

# 4. Inspect specific elements
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools inspect "button.submit"

# 5. Take screenshot for documentation
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools screenshot /tmp/page.png --full-page

# 6. Check console for errors
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools console --level error

# 7. Clean up
~/.claude/skills/webapp-testing/bin/browser-tools kill
```

**Benefits**:
- **No MCP overhead**: Direct Chrome DevTools Protocol communication
- **Context-rot proof**: No dependency on evolving MCP specifications
- **Interactive picker**: Visual element selection for selector discovery
- **Lightweight**: Faster than full Playwright for simple tasks
- **Pre-compiled binary**: Ready to use, no compilation needed (auto-compiled via create-rule.js)

## Decision Tree: Choosing Your Approach

```
User task → Is it static HTML?
    ├─ Yes → Read HTML file directly to identify selectors
    │         ├─ Success → Write Playwright script using selectors
    │         └─ Fails/Incomplete → Treat as dynamic (below)
    │
    └─ No (dynamic webapp) → Is the server already running?
        ├─ No → Run: python scripts/with_server.py --help
        │        Then use the helper + write simplified Playwright script
        │
        └─ Yes → Reconnaissance-then-action:
            1. Navigate and wait for networkidle
            2. Take screenshot or inspect DOM
            3. Identify selectors from rendered state
            4. Execute actions with discovered selectors
```

## Example: Using with_server.py

To start a server, run `--help` first, then use the helper:

**Single server:**
```bash
python scripts/with_server.py --server "npm run dev" --port 3000 -- python your_automation.py
```

**Multiple servers (e.g., backend + frontend):**
```bash
python scripts/with_server.py \
  --server "cd backend && python server.py" --port 8000 \
  --server "cd frontend && npm run dev" --port 3000 \
  -- python your_automation.py
```

To create an automation script, include only Playwright logic (servers are managed automatically):
```python
from playwright.sync_api import sync_playwright

APP_PORT = 3000  # Match the port from --port argument

with sync_playwright() as p:
    browser = p.chromium.launch(headless=True) # Always launch chromium in headless mode
    page = browser.new_page()
    page.goto(f'http://localhost:{APP_PORT}') # Server already running and ready
    page.wait_for_load_state('networkidle') # CRITICAL: Wait for JS to execute
    # ... your automation logic
    browser.close()
```

## Reconnaissance-Then-Action Pattern

1. **Inspect rendered DOM**:
   ```python
   page.screenshot(path='/tmp/inspect.png', full_page=True)
   content = page.content()
   page.locator('button').all()
   ```

2. **Identify selectors** from inspection results

3. **Execute actions** using discovered selectors

## Common Pitfall

❌ **Don't** inspect the DOM before waiting for `networkidle` on dynamic apps
✅ **Do** wait for `page.wait_for_load_state('networkidle')` before inspection

## Best Practices

- **Use bundled scripts as black boxes** - To accomplish a task, consider whether one of the scripts available in `scripts/` can help. These scripts handle common, complex workflows reliably without cluttering the context window. Use `--help` to see usage, then invoke directly. 
- Use `sync_playwright()` for synchronous scripts
- Always close the browser when done
- Use descriptive selectors: `text=`, `role=`, CSS selectors, or IDs
- Add appropriate waits: `page.wait_for_selector()` or `page.wait_for_timeout()`

## Utility Modules

The skill now includes comprehensive utilities for common testing patterns:

### UI Interactions (`utils/ui_interactions.py`)

Handle common UI patterns automatically:

```python
from utils.ui_interactions import (
    dismiss_cookie_banner,
    dismiss_modal,
    click_with_header_offset,
    force_click_if_needed,
    wait_for_no_overlay,
    wait_for_stable_dom
)

# Dismiss cookie consent
dismiss_cookie_banner(page)

# Close welcome modal
dismiss_modal(page, modal_identifier="Welcome")

# Click button behind fixed header
click_with_header_offset(page, 'button#submit', header_height=100)

# Try click with force fallback
force_click_if_needed(page, 'button#action')

# Wait for loading overlays to disappear
wait_for_no_overlay(page)

# Wait for DOM to stabilize
wait_for_stable_dom(page)
```

### Smart Form Filling (`utils/form_helpers.py`)

Intelligently handle form variations:

```python
from utils.form_helpers import (
    SmartFormFiller,
    handle_multi_step_form,
    auto_fill_form
)

# Works with both "Full Name" and "First/Last Name" fields
filler = SmartFormFiller()
filler.fill_name_field(page, "Jane Doe")
filler.fill_email_field(page, "jane@example.com")
filler.fill_password_fields(page, "SecurePass123!")
filler.fill_phone_field(page, "+447700900123")
filler.fill_date_field(page, "1990-01-15", field_hint="birth")

# Auto-fill entire form
results = auto_fill_form(page, {
    'email': 'test@example.com',
    'password': 'Pass123!',
    'full_name': 'Test User',
    'phone': '+447700900123',
    'date_of_birth': '1990-01-15'
})

# Handle multi-step forms
steps = [
    {'fields': {'email': 'test@example.com', 'password': 'Pass123!'}, 'checkbox': True},
    {'fields': {'full_name': 'Test User', 'date_of_birth': '1990-01-15'}},
    {'complete': True}
]
handle_multi_step_form(page, steps)
```

### Supabase Testing (`utils/supabase.py`)

Database operations for Supabase-based apps:

```python
from utils.supabase import SupabaseTestClient, quick_cleanup

# Initialize client
client = SupabaseTestClient(
    url="https://project.supabase.co",
    service_key="your-service-role-key",
    db_password="your-db-password"
)

# Create test user
user_id = client.create_user("test@example.com", "password123")

# Create invite code
client.create_invite_code("TEST2024", code_type="general")

# Bypass email verification
client.confirm_email(user_id)

# Cleanup after test
client.cleanup_related_records(user_id)
client.delete_user(user_id)

# Quick cleanup helper
quick_cleanup("test@example.com", "db_password", "https://project.supabase.co")
```

### Advanced Wait Strategies (`utils/wait_strategies.py`)

Better alternatives to simple sleep():

```python
from utils.wait_strategies import (
    wait_for_api_call,
    wait_for_element_stable,
    smart_navigation_wait,
    combined_wait
)

# Wait for specific API response
response = wait_for_api_call(page, '**/api/profile**')

# Wait for element to stop moving
wait_for_element_stable(page, '.dropdown-menu', stability_ms=1000)

# Smart navigation with URL check
page.click('button#login')
smart_navigation_wait(page, expected_url_pattern='**/dashboard**')

# Comprehensive wait (network + DOM + overlays)
combined_wait(page)
```

### Smart Selectors (`utils/smart_selectors.py`) ⭐ NEW

Automatically try multiple selector strategies to find elements, reducing test brittleness:

```python
from utils.smart_selectors import SelectorStrategies

# Find and fill email field (tries 7 different selector strategies)
success = SelectorStrategies.smart_fill(page, 'email', 'test@example.com')
# Output: ✓ Found field via placeholder: input[placeholder*="email" i]
#         ✓ Filled 'email' with value

# Find and click button (tries 8 different strategies)
success = SelectorStrategies.smart_click(page, 'Sign In')
# Output: ✓ Found button via case-insensitive text: button:text-matches("Sign In", "i")
#         ✓ Clicked 'Sign In' button

# Manual control - find input field selector
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_input_field(page, 'password')
if selector:
    page.fill(selector, 'my-password')

# Manual control - find button selector
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_button(page, 'Submit')
if selector:
    page.click(selector)

# Try custom selectors with fallback
selectors = ['button#submit', 'button.submit-btn', 'input[type="submit"]']
selector = SelectorStrategies.find_any_element(page, selectors)
```

**Selector Strategies Tried (in order):**

For input fields:
1. Test IDs: `[data-testid*="email"]`
2. ARIA labels: `input[aria-label*="email"]`
3. Placeholder: `input[placeholder*="email"]`
4. Name attribute: `input[name*="email"]`
5. Type attribute: `input[type="email"]`
6. ID exact: `#email`
7. ID partial: `input[id*="email"]`

For buttons:
1. Test IDs: `[data-testid*="sign-in"]`
2. Name attribute: `button[name*="Sign In"]`
3. Exact text: `button:has-text("Sign In")`
4. Case-insensitive: `button:text-matches("Sign In", "i")`
5. Link as button: `a:has-text("Sign In")`
6. Submit input: `input[type="submit"][value*="Sign In"]`
7. Role button: `[role="button"]:has-text("Sign In")`

**When to use:**
- ✅ Forms where HTML structure changes frequently
- ✅ Third-party components with unpredictable selectors
- ✅ Multi-application test suites
- ❌ Performance-critical tests (adds 5s timeout per strategy)

**Performance:**
- Timeout per strategy: 5 seconds (configurable)
- Max timeout: 10 seconds across all strategies
- Typical: First strategy works (1-2 seconds)

### Browser Configuration (`utils/browser_config.py`) ⭐ NEW

Auto-configure browser context for testing environments:

```python
from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig

# Auto-detect CSP bypass for localhost
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'http://localhost:3000'
)
# Output:
# ============================================================
#   Browser Context Configuration
# ============================================================
#   Base URL: http://localhost:3000
#   🔓 CSP bypass: ENABLED (testing on localhost)
#   ⚠️  HTTPS errors: IGNORED (self-signed certs OK)
#   📐 Viewport: 1280x720
# ============================================================

# Production testing (no CSP bypass)
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'https://production.example.com'
)
# Output: 🔒 CSP bypass: DISABLED (production mode)

# Mobile device emulation
context = BrowserConfig.create_mobile_context(
    browser,
    device='iPhone 12',
    base_url='http://localhost:3000'
)
# Output: 📱 Mobile context: iPhone 12
#         Viewport: {'width': 390, 'height': 844}
#         🔓 CSP bypass: ENABLED

# Manual override
context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
    browser,
    'http://localhost:3000',
    bypass_csp=False,  # Force disable even for localhost
    record_video=True,  # Record test session
    extra_http_headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer token'}
)
```

**Features:**
- **Auto CSP detection**: Enables bypass for localhost, disables for production
- **Self-signed certs**: Ignores HTTPS errors by default
- **Consistent viewport**: 1280x720 default for reproducible tests
- **Mobile emulation**: Built-in device profiles
- **Video recording**: Optional session recording
- **Verbose logging**: See exactly what's configured

**When to use:**
- ✅ Every test (replaces manual `browser.new_context()`)
- ✅ Testing on localhost with CSP restrictions
- ✅ Mobile-responsive testing
- ✅ Need consistent browser configuration across tests

### CSP Monitoring (`utils/ui_interactions.py`) ⭐ NEW

Auto-detect and suggest fixes for Content Security Policy violations:

```python
from utils.ui_interactions import setup_page_with_csp_handling
from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig

context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(browser, 'http://localhost:7160')
page = context.new_page()

# Enable CSP violation monitoring
setup_page_with_csp_handling(page)

page.goto('http://localhost:7160')

# If CSP violation occurs, you'll see:
# ======================================================================
# ⚠️  CSP VIOLATION DETECTED
# ======================================================================
# Message: Refused to execute inline script because it violates...
#
# 💡 SUGGESTION:
#    For localhost testing, use:
#
#    from utils.browser_config import BrowserConfig
#    context = BrowserConfig.create_test_context(
#        browser, 'http://localhost:3000'
#    )
#    # Auto-enables CSP bypass for localhost
#
#    Or manually:
#    context = browser.new_context(bypass_csp=True)
# ======================================================================
```

**When to use:**
- ✅ Debugging why tests fail on localhost
- ✅ Identifying CSP configuration issues
- ✅ Verifying CSP bypass is working
- ❌ Production testing (CSP should be enforced)

## Complete Examples

### Multi-Step Registration

See `examples/multi_step_registration.py` for a complete example showing:
- Database setup (invite codes)
- Cookie banner dismissal
- Multi-step form automation
- Email verification bypass
- Login flow
- Dashboard verification
- Cleanup

Run it:
```bash
python examples/multi_step_registration.py
```

## Using the Webapp-Testing Subagent

A specialized subagent is available for testing automation. Use it to keep your main conversation focused on development:

```
You: "Use webapp-testing agent to register test@example.com and verify the parent role switch works"

Main Agent: [Launches webapp-testing subagent]

Webapp-Testing Agent: [Runs complete automation, returns results]
```

**Benefits:**
- Keeps main context clean
- Specialized for Playwright automation
- Access to all skill utilities
- Automatic screenshot capture
- Clear result reporting

## Reference Files

- **examples/** - Examples showing common patterns:
  - `element_discovery.py` - Discovering buttons, links, and inputs on a page
  - `static_html_automation.py` - Using file:// URLs for local HTML
  - `console_logging.py` - Capturing console logs during automation
  - `multi_step_registration.py` - Complete registration flow example (NEW)

- **utils/** - Reusable utility modules (NEW):
  - `ui_interactions.py` - Cookie banners, modals, overlays, stable waits
  - `form_helpers.py` - Smart form filling, multi-step automation
  - `supabase.py` - Database operations for Supabase apps
  - `wait_strategies.py` - Advanced waiting patterns
